---
layout: post
topics:
 - encouragement
---

Today, I was reminded of how much I owe my parents for encouraging me with technical pursuits as a kid.   I happened to mention to them that I'm going to check out the <a href="http://seattle.bizjournals.com/seattle/event/9691?sid=8cc2ee998b586a99b56d4673e5bd10fa">Women in Tech</a> event this week.  My mom was surprised there's still a need for special encouragement of women to be leaders in technology.  She said she thought that was overcome decades ago. (She had a technical career in neuropathology; we loved visiting her lab as kids.)  My Dad said he wasn't particularly aware of a problem with lack of women in technology, but he was reminded of a particular incident that stuck with him.  When my twin sister and I were starting high school we were enthusiastic to sign up for every honors course that was available.  But the school actually made a point of discouraging this.  They told parents the load could be too much, and they suggested that we not take honors physics, because that was the hardest of all.  I wonder who they did encourage to take honors physics; I suspect only people who weren't interested in honors English.  Hmm.  My Dad told us at the time that we certainly should take honors physics, and if it proved to be very difficult he'd make sure to help us out.   Of course we did end up taking honors physics.  It wasn't nearly as bad as it was made out to be.  We both aced it (without extra help) and even became finalists with our science projects at the state level.   My Dad's mention of this reminded me of how I was more oblivious to discouragement than I might have been if he hadn't been filtering some of it out.
